
This will be an arcade game (inspired by Jetpack Joyride) where the player
controls the object  and move it up, forward and
backward while collecting coins. The player should also dodge the
obstacles/enemies as they have penalties.
Objective of the game is to maximize score by collecting coins. The player will
level up when certain scores are attained and that will cause some additional
features to get unlocked increasing the difficulty of the game. 
World and Objects :
1. The world consists of a wall,score display,platform and the player.The player
will have a Jetpack attached to him with which he can move up. Note : we do
not expect the player to look same as the player in the picture, make use of
primitives to construct your player in the best creative way possible.
2. Coins of different colours (each corresponding to certain points) should
appear above the ground at various heights (random).
3. Magnets,should appear and disappear randomly which will cause the player’s
motion to be influenced.
4. Special flying objects(moving in a projectile) at least 2, should appear
randomly and should give player certain bonus(Like speed ups, more
coins,etc) .You are free to use or own creativity and imagination.
5. Circular ring: A semi circular horizontal ring should appear after a certain
distance, if the player goes inside this ring he should follow the semi circular
path and will be protected from the enemies.
6. The game should have certain enemies(on collision with them,the player
should lose points,you are free to decide this on your own):
a. Enemy 1(Fire Lines):Two circular or small cylindrical objects should
appear and a “Fire” like line should be created between them(See the
above figure).The Lines can be at any angle with the platform.
b. Enemy 2(Fire Beams): Two pairs of circular or small cylindrical objects
should appear and a “Fire” like beam should be created between each
pair.The beams should be parallel to platform and can move along Y
axis.
c. Enemy 3(Boomerangs): A boomerang should appear randomly and
move somewhat in a horizontal ‘U’ direction or a flattened ‘C’ direction
,i.e. the boomerang should start ahead of the player, go behind it and
then come back and cross the player.If the player comes in contact
with the boomerang ,a penalty should be incurred.
d. Enemy 4(Viserion) (BONUS): A flying dragon should appear
randomly ,adjust its position according to player(movement along Y
axis) and should throw Ice balls (Need not look like an exact dragon :p
, but certainly better representations would fetch you extra bonus
marks)
7. There should be a provision to extinguish fire by throwing water balloons on a
key press.
8. Proper collision detection is more important than the appearance of
objects.You would not want good looking objects, bouncing off without
touching each other.
Gameplay:
1. The player can move in any direction horizontally with a fixed velocity
according to the key press.
2. The player can use the jet pack and move vertically upwards.
3. There should be an option of Zooming in/out using mouse scroll.
4. In some scenarios(mentioned in Controls section) there should be automatic
panning (like in mario).
Physics :
You should incorporate the basic laws of motion (Newton’s Laws) into the behaviour/
motion of the objects. The minimum set of factors you need to consider are:
1. Presence of Acceleration due to gravity everywhere.
2. Proper projectile nature of movement of objects according to their vertical and
horizontal components of velocities.
3. Proper movement of boomerang.In a horizontal ‘U’ direction
4. Magnet: The player’s path needs to be influenced by the magnet. Assume
magnet causes a constant attractive force in its direction.
Controls :
1) For the player to move up use the space key .
If he reaches the ceiling then he must move in that height unless the
space key is released.
After the release of the space key the player will influence gravitational
force and must come down until he reaches the platform . Once the player
reaches he must run on the platform.
2) To zoom in/out use the mouse scroll wheel .
3) The player can also go left/right (forward & backward for player) using
left/right arrow keys if he reaches the extremes of the screen (leftmost &
rightmost ) then the panning should be done automatically so that the player
is in screen .
4) Any key of your choice for throwing water balloons.
Bonus :
1. Enemy 4,Better representation of the Player.
2. Give special power up to the player,which will create a shield/sword in front of
player ,which can cut past enemies and objects.
3. Your Powerful Imagination and Thinking Hat :) !
Useful Hints :
1. When you create objects in the world, make them as objects in the program
(class,struct) with all the parameters needed for drawing, animating, motion,
sound etc. built into the object along with a method to draw themselves.
These parameters would include, but not limited to position, orientation, color,
state, etc. This way, you will be able to replicate an object easily and enhance
them later on.
2. The main control logic (or game engine) will look at the current state (time,
collisions,etc.) and update each element in the world. Create a collision
detection function that checks for collision between any two objects. This may
be used by the game engine to find any impact and take corresponding
action.
3. Start with a simple world and complete the game. You may enhance the
objects and motion, once you are done with your V1.0. While creating the
objects and the game engine, think of how to make each parameter that you
set to be flexible.
Use J key to throw water balls.
